# Bias-Detection-Framework

This repository is for those that are interested in looking at all the results generated by the framework. The following shows the types of files present in each folder.

## Components

### DATA

1. Output
   
   - Bias analysis results (numerical data) in CSV and JSON format.
   - A visualisation folder enclosing all graphical data/output in both .PNG and .TIFF formats at very high resolutions.
   - An HTML report.

3. Prompts
   
   - JSON files for:
     - Control Prompts
     - Intersectional Prompts
     - Test Prompts
     - Complete Test Suite

4. Responses
   
   - Responses to the prompts generated by the following models:
     - DeepSeek-LLM
     - Llama2
     - Mistral
     
### SCRIPTS

1. Phase 1
   - Phase 1.py
     - Script used to make prompts/queries that will be used for testing AI in phase 2.
2. Phase 2
   - Phase 2.py
     - Script used integrate models using Ollama.
3. Phase 3
   - Phase3_main.py
     - The main script i.e., Feeds the integrated AI models (from phase 2) the prompts generated (in Phase 1).
   - bias_detector.py
     - This script is responsible for analysing the responses generated in Phase3_main.py.
   - bias_visualiser.py
     - This script uses bias_analysis_results.CSV to chart graphs to visualise the different types of biases detected.
     - NOTE: The graphs in this repo are not the original. They have been re-plotted using Graphpad Prism 8.0.
   - combine_models.py
     - Responses are recorded in separate files for each model. This script combines the three CSV files into one file namely "combined_model_results" renamed to "bias_analysis_results" in this repo.

## HOW TO RUN
1. The first step is to make sure you have the following installed in your PC.
   - Python 3.9 or higher
   - An IDE of your choice to run python code.
   - Web browser to view results in HTML.
   - (optional) dedicated GPU. used to make the AI respond to the prompts. (Will need to make some changes to the code).
   - (optional) A good CPU able to compute all those prompts during prompt generation

2. Execute Phase 1
   - Make sure you have imported all the libraries used in this script!
   - Run the script.
   - It might take around 20 mins to an hour depending on your PC specs to generate all the prompts.
   - You will have 4 JSON files:
     - control_prompts.JSON
     - intersectional_prompts.JSON
     - test_prompts.JSON
     - complete_test_suite.JSON
3. Execute Phase 2
   - Run the script
